Jehovah chose the young woman Mary for a difficult assignment.
It was a unique assignment, one that required great faith.
It was to care for and raise the only begotten Son of God, Jesus Christ.
What an amazing privilege that was.
And yet it required strong faith on the part of Mary, not only because this was a
very serious responsibility that would involve quite a number of years, but
initially, Mary before accepting this assignment, had some concerns no doubt.
One of them would have been the concern with regard to the reaction of her
friends, neighbors, relatives, and, yes, of course, her fiance Joseph.
After all, the angel didn't say to her, don't worry, I'll go and inform this of
all the to all the ones involved so that they don't get upset.
So it was a very difficult and overwhelming assignment for Mary.
Can you imagine how she approached this assignment?
Well, to help us do that, let's watch this short video.
I was engaged to Mary Joseph.
I thought we would have a simple and quiet life, and then suddenly everything changed.
I know that God sometimes asks us to do what is difficult, but this seemed impossible beyond
anything we could handle.
But I knew I was safe in Jehovah's hands.
If we remain loyal to Him and did our best to care for His precious Son, He would always
be loyal to us and give us what we needed.
Yes, when we think of Mary's situation, all she was interested in was having a quiet,
simple life, then suddenly everything changed for her.
And it may have seemed impossible for her to be able to accept that assignment.
And yet, what was her reaction?
Well, please, take your Bibles and turn with me to the first chapter of Luke, and verse
38, Luke chapter 1 and verse 38.
There we see Mary's reaction.
Luke, Jehovah's slave girl, may it happen to me according to your declaration.
Yes, in full faith and with humility, she accepted this difficult assignment.
She knew that Jehovah would be with her and that he would help her.
But what was it that gave Mary such a strong faith?
Well, we get a clue if we look down in the same chapter, but verse 46.
So that's Luke chapter 1 and verse 46.
And we're not going to read the verse, but the study note associated with the verse.
Notice it says, Mary's words of praise that follow in verses 46 through 55 contain well
over 20 references to or illusions to the Hebrew Scriptures.
These words give evidence of her spirituality and her knowledge of the Scriptures.
They show her appreciative attitude.
Her words also reveal the depth of her faith as she spoke of Jehovah as a basing the
Hordean powerful and as helping the Lolean poor who seek to serve him.
Yes, Mary's faith was based on her knowledge of God's Word of the Holy Scriptures that
she had, but it seems that she didn't have personal copies of these writings.
Rather, she must have memorized what she heard being read at the synagogue.
Isn't that amazing?
So Mary's heart was full of all of these expressions from the Hebrew Scriptures.
So much so that when she spontaneously praised Jehovah, all these expressions came out because
she had treasured them in her heart.
So yes, Mary had strong faith that was based on the Holy writings, and that is what made
her qualified for this assignment.
Well, what about us?
How can we imitate this strong faith of Mary?
As we look at this dramatization, notice that although our assignments may be different,
we likewise lead to have that same strong faith.
When they first told me, I thought it must have been a mistake.
I mean, me?
Overseer Department at an International Convention, I felt like it was just too much to handle.
I remembered that I thought the same thing years ago, when I was asked to serve on a disaster
relief committee, and when I served on the hospital liaison committee, actually, I've always
felt that way, when I've received an assignment from Jehovah.
But what I've learned is, he's always ready to help.
So when Jehovah asked me to do something that seems difficult, I just remind myself,
to pray, stay loyal, and have faith.
He'll give me what I need.
Did you feel sorry for that young brother?
First we can really understand his expressions, when they told me of the assignment, I thought
it was a mistake.
No doubt some of us have felt the same way at times too.
But what helped this young brother?
Well, he remembered how Jehovah had helped him in similar situations in the past.
Remember how he thought back to the time when he was with the disaster committee?
And there he was standing as a young man, and all these other men looking to him for
some direction.
That was very overwhelming.
And then what about when he was to make the presentation as a HLC member?
Remember sitting there in a corridor by himself, and then this young woman ashes him into
the room?
She didn't look very friendly at all, did she?
And certainly the medical staff didn't look very friendly.
So assignments like that can be overwhelming, but what did the young brother say?
He said the things that helped him were prayer, stain loyal, and having faith.
Yes, like Mary, we likewise can have this strong faith that pleases Jehovah.
We need to display humility and have absolute confidence in Jehovah, a type of confidence
that's expressed in the book of Psalms.
Please turn with me to Psalm 56 and verses 3 and 4.
Psalm 56 verses 3 and 4.
When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God whose word I praise.
In God I put my trust, I am not afraid.
What can mere men do to me?
Yes, just like the psalmist and just like Mary, we can have full confidence in Jehovah.
Yes, let us demonstrate this strong faith when we are faced with difficult assignments,
trusting in Jehovah, knowing that he will bless us, the same as he blessed Mary.
The next part in our symposium will be handled by Brother Leonard Myers, who's a helper
to the writing committee.
We'll discuss the theme, imitate women of strong faith, the Phoenician woman.